sid	sentence	disrel	relphrase	arg1	arg2	annotationOpt
1	Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.	part		resting	maintain good health	
2	A mother hen clucks loudly when danger is near and her chicks quickly gather around her. Sound helps the chicks receive this warning about danger from their mother.	condition		Sound	receive this warning about danger	
3	A bicycle is nonliving.	purpose		bicycle	nonliving	
4	Sense of smell helps a fox find food.	enable		Sense of smell	find food	
5	When an ice cube melts, its state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid.	requirement		an ice cube melts	state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid	
6	During winter, the white fur of an arctic fox blends in with the snow. This adaptation is called camouflage.	condition		adaptation	camouflag	
7	A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.	effect		decomposer	breaks down dead plants and animals	
8	An objects hardness, taste, and texture are examples of properties.	cause		hardness, taste, and texture	properties	
9	A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.	effect		a graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
10	A student puts two identical plants in the same type and amount of soil. She gives them the same amount of water. She puts one of these plants near a sunny window and the other in a dark room. This experiment tests how the plants respond to light.	condition		experiment tests	how the plants respond to light	
11	A bicycle is nonliving.	example		bicycle	nonliving	
12	If an object is attracted to a magnet, the object is most likely made of metal.	part		an object is attracted to a magnet	the object is most likely made of metal	
13	An iron nail is the best conductor of electricity.	requirement		iron nail	conductor of electricity	
14	A stove is used to boil water in a pan is an example in which a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred.	cause		A stove is used to boil water in a pan	a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred	
15	A puddle drying in the sun is the best example of evaporation.	purpose		puddle drying in the sun	evaporation	
16	A decrease in air temperature from 60°F to 35°F would most likely cause a person to shiver.	enable		A decrease in air temperature	a person to shiver	
17	Touch is used to determine an object's texture.	purpose		Touch	determine an object's texture	
18	Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.	part		Gravity	rocks to roll downhill	
19	Water is usually found in nature as a liquid, solid, and gas.	cause		Water	liquid, solid, and gas	
20	A meter describes an object's length.	purpose		meter	describes an object's length	
21	Meters can be used to describe an objects length.	effect		Meters	describe an objects length	
22	A student has a ball of clay that sinks when placed in a pan of water. He should change shape to make the clay float.	purpose		change shape	make the clay float	
23	Temperatures below freezing are expected overnight. Covering them might be done to protect plants growing outside.	example		Covering them	protect plants growing outside	
24	A claws for obtaining food is correctly paired with its function.	purpose		claws	obtaining food	
25	An example of a poor health habit is eating candy instead of lunch.	example		eating candy instead of lunch	a poor health habit	
26	A turtle eating worms is an example of taking in nutrients.	part		A turtle eating worms	taking in nutrients	
27	Decrease the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.	condition		Decrease the temperature	change water from a liquid to a solid	
28	Sense of smell helps a fox find food.	cause		Sense of smell	find food	
29	A bicycle is nonliving.	condition		bicycle	nonliving	
30	It takes one week for Earth to rotate on its axis seven times.	condition		Earth to rotate	one week	
31	Gravity causes a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water.	purpose		Gravity	a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water	
32	Heat is needed to change water from a liquid to a gas.	effect		Heat	change water from a liquid to a gas	
33	The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion.	condition		movement of soil by wind or water	erosion	
34	Flower of a plant produces the seeds.	effect		Flower of a plant	seeds	
35	In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during June.	purpose		the longest period of daylight	during June	
36	An example of a poor health habit is eating candy instead of lunch.	purpose		eating candy instead of lunch	a poor health habit	
37	In New York State, the shortest period of daylight occurs during December.	requirement		the shortest period of daylight	during December	
38	Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.	purpose		Polluting	environment	
39	A meter describes an object's length.	part		meter	describes an object's length	
40	An iron nail is the best conductor of electricity.	cause		iron nail	conductor of electricity	
41	A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. She should use a hand lens to get a better look at the spots.	cause		a hand lens	get a better look at the spots	
42	Sleet, rain, snow, and hail are forms of precipitation.	requirement		Sleet, rain, snow, and hail	precipitation	
43	Touch is used to determine an object's texture.	effect		Touch	determine an object's texture	
44	A marble is dropped in a glass of water. Gravity pulls the marble to the bottom of the glass.	requirement		Gravity	pulls the marble to the bottom	
45	When a baby shakes a rattle, it makes a noise. Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy.	cause		a baby shakes a rattle	Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy	
46	The length of daylight in New York State changes from summer to fall by decreasing.	enable		The length of daylight	changes from summer to fall by decreasing	
47	A student crumples up a sheet of paper. Shape has changed.	part		crumples up a sheet of paper	Shape has changed	
48	Decrease the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.	effect		Decrease the temperature	change water from a liquid to a solid	
49	Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.	example		Exercising every day	good health habit	
50	The length of daylight in New York State changes from summer to fall by decreasing.	part		The length of daylight	changes from summer to fall by decreasing	
51	Temperature and sky conditions are both used to describe weather.	effect		Temperature and sky conditions	describe	
52	A duck's feathers are covered with a natural oil that keeps the duck dry. This is a special feature ducks have that helps them adapt to their environment.	example		special feature	adapt to their environment	
53	Water freezing is an example of a liquid changing to a solid.	purpose		Water freezing	a liquid changing to a solid	
54	A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.	cause		heat that produces the smoke	friction	
55	A turtle eating worms is an example of taking in nutrients.	enable		A turtle eating worms	taking in nutrients	
56	Gravity causes a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water.	enable		Gravity	a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water	
57	The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion.	purpose		movement of soil by wind or water	erosion	
58	Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.	condition		Exercising every day	good health habit	
59	Living things depend on energy from the Sun.	example		Sun	Living things	
60	Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.	requirement		Sunlight	the water cycle	
61	A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. She should use a hand lens to get a better look at the spots.	effect		a hand lens	get a better look at the spots	
62	Rotation of Earth causes day and night.	part		Rotation of Earth	day and night	
63	Meters can be used to describe an objects length.	cause		Meters	describe an objects length	
64	Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.	example		Mechanical energy	pushes a wooden block across the floor	
65	Having blue eyes is inherited rather than learned.	purpose		Having blue eyes	inherited	
66	A bicycle is nonliving.	requirement		bicycle	nonliving	
67	A decomposer is an organism that recycles nutrients.	part		decomposer	recycles nutrients	
68	Flower of a plant produces the seeds.	part		Flower of a plant	seeds	
69	A duck's feathers are covered with a natural oil that keeps the duck dry. This is a special feature ducks have that helps them adapt to their environment.	purpose		special feature	adapt to their environment	
70	A student measured the volume of water in a pan. The student boiled the water for thirty minutes and then measured the volume of the water again. The volume of water most likely decreased.	condition		The student boiled the water	decreased	
71	When a baby shakes a rattle, it makes a noise. Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy.	part		a baby shakes a rattle	Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy	
72	An objects hardness, taste, and texture are examples of properties.	part		hardness, taste, and texture	properties	
73	Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.	enable		get energy	growth and repair from food	
74	A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity.	condition		ball comes back down	gravity	
75	A turtle eating worms is an example of taking in nutrients.	purpose		A turtle eating worms	taking in nutrients	
76	The main function of a duck's webbed feet is to help the duck swim in water.	condition		a duck's webbed feet	swim in water	
77	Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.	purpose		green plants make their own food	producers	
78	A decrease in air temperature from 60°F to 35°F would most likely cause a person to shiver.	part		A decrease in air temperature	a person to shiver	
79	Growing thicker fur in the winter helps some animals to keep warm.	effect		Growing thicker fur	keep warm	
80	Water freezing is an example of a liquid changing to a solid.	example		Water freezing	a liquid changing to a solid	
81	A person does use mechanical energy to pedal a bicycle.	condition		mechanical energy	pedal a bicycle	
82	A turtle eating worms is an example of taking in nutrients.	condition		A turtle eating worms	taking in nutrients	
83	It takes one week for Earth to rotate on its axis seven times.	purpose		Earth to rotate	one week	
84	Humans depend on water from the environment.	example		water	humans	
85	A snowy field is an environment in which a white rabbit would be best protected from predators.	condition		snowy field	be best protected from predators	
86	A thick fur would best help a bear to survive a winter in New York State.	requirement		thick fur	survive in winter	
87	Fourth graders are planning a roller-skate race. Blacktop would be the best for this race.	part		Blacktop	this race	
88	A meter describes an object's length.	example		meter	describes an object's length	
89	One way animals usually respond to a sudden drop in temperature is by shivering.	condition		shivering	respond to a sudden drop in temperature	
90	A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.	enable		heat that produces the smoke	friction	
91	Sleet and hail are forms of precipitation.	cause		Sleet and hail	precipitation	
92	Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.	part		Exercising every day	good health habit	
93	Growth causes the leaves of a plant to become larger.	effect		Growth	leaves of a plant to become larger	
94	All animals do need water, air, and food in order to survive.	cause		water, air and food	survive	
95	A puddle drying in the sun is the best example of evaporation.	part		puddle drying in the sun	evaporation	
96	The functions of a plant's roots are to support the plant and take in water and nutrients.	purpose		roots	support the plant and take in water and nutrients	
97	Winter season is a season of the year during which a rabbits fur would be thickest.	part		Winter season	a rabbits fur would be thickest	
98	An objects hardness, taste, and texture are examples of properties.	purpose		hardness, taste, and texture	properties	
99	Centimeters can be used to describe the length of a desk.	purpose		Centimeters	describe the length of a desk	
100	The main function of scales on a fish is to protect the fish.	cause		scales of a fish	protect the fish	
101	A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. She should use a hand lens to get a better look at the spots.	example		a hand lens	get a better look at the spots	
102	Winter season is a season of the year during which a rabbits fur would be thickest.	purpose		Winter season	a rabbits fur would be thickest	
103	Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.	effect		green plants make their own food	producers	
104	Cutting down a rain forest is most harmful to the natural environment.	effect		Cutting down a rain forest	natural environment	
105	During an experiment, a student reports that a liquid turned green when mixed with another liquid. This is an example of an observation.	part		This	observation	
106	Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.	example		sunlight	make food	
107	A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.	part		decomposer	breaks down dead plants and animals	
108	Centimeters can be used to describe the length of a desk.	effect		Centimeters	describe the length of a desk	
109	A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.	part		heat that produces the smoke	friction	
110	Gravity causes a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water.	requirement		Gravity	a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water	
111	During winter, the white fur of an arctic fox blends in with the snow. This adaptation is called camouflage.	cause		adaptation	camouflag	
112	When a baby shakes a rattle, it makes a noise. Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy.	requirement		a baby shakes a rattle	Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy	
113	When a person speaks into a telephone, sound energy is changed mostly into electrical energy.	example		speaks into a telephone	sound energy is changed into electricity energy	
114	Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.	enable		sunlight	make food	
115	Living things depend on energy from the Sun.	requirement		Sun	Living things	
116	Meters can be used to describe an objects length.	condition		Meters	describe an objects length	
117	A duck's feathers are covered with a natural oil that keeps the duck dry. This is a special feature ducks have that helps them adapt to their environment.	enable		special feature	adapt to their environment	
118	Many birds fly south for the winter. This adaptation is called migration.	purpose		Many birds fly south for the winter	migration	
119	Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.	cause		green plants make their own food	producers	
120	A bicycle is nonliving.	effect		bicycle	nonliving	
121	Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.	example		Gravity	rocks to roll downhill	
122	A metal fork is the best conductor of electricity.	condition		a metal fork	conductor of electricity	
123	A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.	purpose		heat that produces the smoke	friction	
124	A graduated cylinder would be best to measure the volume of a liquid.	example		A graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
125	A student drops a ball. Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.	requirement		Gravity	the ball to fall to the ground	
126	A student has a ball of clay that sinks when placed in a pan of water. He should change shape to make the clay float.	example		change shape	make the clay float	
127	A puddle drying in the sun is the best example of evaporation.	effect		puddle drying in the sun	evaporation	
128	A student puts two identical plants in the same type and amount of soil. She gives them the same amount of water. She puts one of these plants near a sunny window and the other in a dark room. This experiment tests how the plants respond to light.	effect		experiment tests	how the plants respond to light	
129	Heat is needed to change water from a liquid to a gas.	example		Heat	change water from a liquid to a gas	
130	The main function of scales on a fish is to protect the fish.	requirement		scales of a fish	protect the fish	
131	A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity.	requirement		ball comes back down	gravity	
132	Centimeters can be used to describe the length of a desk.	condition		Centimeters	describe the length of a desk	
133	Gravity causes a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water.	condition		Gravity	a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water	
134	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. If the day were cool instead of hot, the rainwater in the pan would have disappeared slower.	requirement		day were cool	disappeared slower	
135	During an experiment, a student reports that a liquid turned green when mixed with another liquid. This is an example of an observation.	enable		This	observation	
136	During winter, the white fur of an arctic fox blends in with the snow. This adaptation is called camouflage.	enable		adaptation	camouflag	
137	Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.	enable		Gravity	rocks to roll downhill	
138	Temperature and sky conditions are both used to describe weather.	cause		Temperature and sky conditions	describe	
139	Water freezing is an example of a liquid changing to a solid.	enable		Water freezing	a liquid changing to a solid	
140	One way animals usually respond to a sudden drop in temperature is by shivering.	example		shivering	respond to a sudden drop in temperature	
141	An objects hardness, taste, and texture are examples of properties.	example		hardness, taste, and texture	properties	
142	A girl eating an apple describes an organism taking in nutrients.	cause		A girl eating an apple	an organism taking in nutrients	
143	Living things depend on energy from the Sun.	enable		Sun	Living things	
144	Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.	example		get energy	growth and repair from food	
145	A mother hen clucks loudly when danger is near and her chicks quickly gather around her. Sound helps the chicks receive this warning about danger from their mother.	effect		Sound	receive this warning about danger	
146	Cutting down a rain forest is most harmful to the natural environment.	condition		Cutting down a rain forest	natural environment	
147	Fourth graders are planning a roller-skate race. Blacktop would be the best for this race.	effect		Blacktop	this race	
148	A pumpkin is a fruit.	part		pumpkin	a fruit	
149	A meter describes an object's length.	effect		meter	describes an object's length	
150	Some birds fly south before winter each year. This is an example of migration.	purpose		Some birds fly south before winter	migration	
151	Sight can be used to determine an objects ability to reflect light.	requirement		Sight	determine an objects ability to reflect light	
152	The main function of scales on a fish is to protect the fish.	condition		scales of a fish	protect the fish	
153	Water is usually found in nature as a liquid, solid, and gas.	effect		Water	liquid, solid, and gas	
154	Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.	purpose		Sunlight	the water cycle	
155	The main function of a duck's webbed feet is to help the duck swim in water.	purpose		a duck's webbed feet	swim in water	
156	Fourth graders are planning a roller-skate race. Blacktop would be the best for this race.	example		Blacktop	this race	
157	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. If the day were cool instead of hot, the rainwater in the pan would have disappeared slower.	part		day were cool	disappeared slower	
158	An iron nail is the best conductor of electricity.	effect		iron nail	conductor of electricity	
159	During winter, the white fur of an arctic fox blends in with the snow. This adaptation is called camouflage.	effect		adaptation	camouflag	
160	A duck's feathers are covered with a natural oil that keeps the duck dry. This is a special feature ducks have that helps them adapt to their environment.	requirement		special feature	adapt to their environment	
161	An objects hardness, taste, and texture are examples of properties.	effect		hardness, taste, and texture	properties	
162	A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity.	enable		ball comes back down	gravity	
163	If an object is attracted to a magnet, the object is most likely made of metal.	enable		an object is attracted to a magnet	the object is most likely made of metal	
164	Many birds fly south for the winter. This adaptation is called migration.	requirement		Many birds fly south for the winter	migration	
165	The main function of a duck's webbed feet is to help the duck swim in water.	enable		a duck's webbed feet	swim in water	
166	Some birds fly south before winter each year. This is an example of migration.	cause		Some birds fly south before winter	migration	
167	Grow and reproduce are carried out by all species of living things.	condition		Grow and reproduce	carried by all species of living things	
168	A puppy can inherit spotted fur from its parents.	condition		puppy	spotted fur from its parents	
169	Heat energy causes an ice cube to melt.	requirement		Heat energy	an ice cube to melt	
170	Living things depend on energy from the Sun.	cause		Sun	Living things	
171	A bird migrating south is an example of an animal adapting to a change in the environment.	condition		A bird migrating south	adapting to a change in the environment	
172	A stove is used to boil water in a pan is an example in which a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred.	requirement		A stove is used to boil water in a pan	a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred	
173	A claws for obtaining food is correctly paired with its function.	enable		claws	obtaining food	
174	When a baby shakes a rattle, it makes a noise. Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy.	purpose		a baby shakes a rattle	Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy	
175	Having blue eyes is inherited rather than learned.	requirement		Having blue eyes	inherited	
176	Water freezing is an example of a liquid changing to a solid.	condition		Water freezing	a liquid changing to a solid	
177	Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.	cause		resting	maintain good health	
178	A student puts two identical plants in the same type and amount of soil. She gives them the same amount of water. She puts one of these plants near a sunny window and the other in a dark room. This experiment tests how the plants respond to light.	part		experiment tests	how the plants respond to light	
179	A student should use a balance to compare the masses of two small rocks.	purpose		balance	compare the masses of two small rocks	
180	A decomposer is an organism that recycles nutrients.	cause		decomposer	recycles nutrients	
181	Some butterflies live an average of two weeks. This period of time is called a life span.	effect		live a average of two weeks	life span	
182	A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.	cause		opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out	adjust to hot temperatures	
183	Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.	purpose		Gravity	rocks to roll downhill	
184	The functions of a plant's roots are to support the plant and take in water and nutrients.	enable		roots	support the plant and take in water and nutrients	
185	A girl signals her friend by shining a flashlight on a mirror. Her friend can see the signal because light energy can be reflected from one object to another.	requirement		light energy can be reflected from one object to another	see the signal	
186	A student should use a balance to compare the masses of two small rocks.	condition		balance	compare the masses of two small rocks	
187	A student has a ball of clay that sinks when placed in a pan of water. He should change shape to make the clay float.	requirement		change shape	make the clay float	
188	Apple trees can live for many years, but bean plants usually live for only a few months. This statement suggests that different plants have different life spans.	enable		statement	different plants have different life spans	
189	It takes one week for Earth to rotate on its axis seven times.	requirement		Earth to rotate	one week	
190	A snowy field is an environment in which a white rabbit would be best protected from predators.	requirement		snowy field	be best protected from predators	
191	A graduated cylinder would be best to measure the volume of a liquid.	part		A graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
192	In New York State, the shortest period of daylight occurs during December.	purpose		the shortest period of daylight	during December	
193	An example of a learned trait is being able to read.	cause		a learned trait	being able to read	
194	In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during June.	cause		the longest period of daylight	during June	
195	A bicycle is nonliving.	part		bicycle	nonliving	
196	If an object is attracted to a magnet, the object is most likely made of metal.	purpose		an object is attracted to a magnet	the object is most likely made of metal	
197	A student should use a balance to compare the masses of two small rocks.	requirement		balance	compare the masses of two small rocks	
198	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. If the day were cool instead of hot, the rainwater in the pan would have disappeared slower.	purpose		day were cool	disappeared slower	
199	Gravity causes a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water.	cause		Gravity	a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water	
200	A human offspring can inherit blue eyes.	part		A human offspring	blue eyes	
201	A duck's feathers are covered with a natural oil that keeps the duck dry. This is a special feature ducks have that helps them adapt to their environment.	cause		special feature	adapt to their environment	
202	Water freezing is an example of a liquid changing to a solid.	cause		Water freezing	a liquid changing to a solid	
203	Sight can be used to determine an objects ability to reflect light.	enable		Sight	determine an objects ability to reflect light	
204	A puppy can inherit spotted fur from its parents.	enable		puppy	spotted fur from its parents	
205	The main function of a duck's webbed feet is to help the duck swim in water.	cause		a duck's webbed feet	swim in water	
206	Growing thicker fur in the winter helps some animals to keep warm.	part		Growing thicker fur	keep warm	
207	Many birds fly south for the winter. This adaptation is called migration.	condition		Many birds fly south for the winter	migration	
208	Winter season is a season of the year during which a rabbits fur would be thickest.	requirement		Winter season	a rabbits fur would be thickest	
209	It rained on a hot summer afternoon and a puddle formed. After several hours, the puddle was gone. Precipitation followed by evaporation made the puddle form and then disappear.	example		Precipitation followed by evaporation 	form and then disappear	
210	Some butterflies live an average of two weeks. This period of time is called a life span.	cause		live a average of two weeks	life span	
211	A stove is used to boil water in a pan is an example in which a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred.	condition		A stove is used to boil water in a pan	a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred	
212	A decomposer is an organism that recycles nutrients.	enable		decomposer	recycles nutrients	
213	A student drops a ball. Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.	cause		Gravity	the ball to fall to the ground	
214	A student measured the volume of water in a pan. The student boiled the water for thirty minutes and then measured the volume of the water again. The volume of water most likely decreased.	purpose		The student boiled the water	decreased	
215	When a baby shakes a rattle, it makes a noise. Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy.	effect		a baby shakes a rattle	Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy	
216	If an object is attracted to a magnet, the object is most likely made of metal.	requirement		an object is attracted to a magnet	the object is most likely made of metal	
217	In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during June.	condition		the longest period of daylight	during June	
218	Rotation of Earth causes day and night.	example		Rotation of Earth	day and night	
219	An iron nail is the best conductor of electricity.	enable		iron nail	conductor of electricity	
220	Sight can be used to determine an objects ability to reflect light.	example		Sight	determine an objects ability to reflect light	
221	A pumpkin is a fruit.	enable		pumpkin	a fruit	
222	Frogs lay eggs that develop into tadpoles and then into adult frogs. This sequence of changes is an example of how living things go through a life cycle.	enable		sequence of changes	how living things go through a life cycle	
223	A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.	example		a graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
224	Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.	effect		Gravity	rocks to roll downhill	
225	A decomposer is an organism that recycles nutrients.	effect		decomposer	recycles nutrients	
226	Chemical energy is found in food.	effect		Chemical energy	found in food	
227	A metal fork is the best conductor of electricity.	requirement		a metal fork	conductor of electricity	
228	A girl eating an apple describes an organism taking in nutrients.	example		A girl eating an apple	an organism taking in nutrients	
229	Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold are words that help describe weather.	purpose		Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold	describe weather	
230	A puppy can inherit spotted fur from its parents.	effect		puppy	spotted fur from its parents	
231	It takes one week for Earth to rotate on its axis seven times.	cause		Earth to rotate	one week	
232	A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley.	cause		pulley	move a flag up a flagpole	
233	All animals do need water, air, and food in order to survive.	effect		water, air and food	survive	
234	When an ice cube melts, its state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid.	effect		an ice cube melts	state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid	
235	Temperature and sky conditions are both used to describe weather.	requirement		Temperature and sky conditions	describe	
236	A student should use a balance to compare the masses of two small rocks.	enable		balance	compare the masses of two small rocks	
237	Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.	example		Polluting	environment	
238	Sleet and hail are forms of precipitation.	effect		Sleet and hail	precipitation	
239	Humans depend on water from the environment.	purpose		water	humans	
240	Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold are words that help describe weather.	condition		Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold	describe weather	
241	A student drops a ball. Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.	part		Gravity	the ball to fall to the ground	
242	Apple trees can live for many years, but bean plants usually live for only a few months. This statement suggests that different plants have different life spans.	purpose		statement	different plants have different life spans	
243	Frogs lay eggs that develop into tadpoles and then into adult frogs. This sequence of changes is an example of how living things go through a life cycle.	purpose		sequence of changes	how living things go through a life cycle	
244	An objects hardness, taste, and texture are examples of properties.	enable		hardness, taste, and texture	properties	
245	Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.	effect		Polluting	environment	
246	A thick fur would best help a bear to survive a winter in New York State.	purpose		thick fur	survive in winter	
247	A meter describes an object's length.	condition		meter	describes an object's length	
248	Apple trees can live for many years, but bean plants usually live for only a few months. This statement suggests that different plants have different life spans.	cause		statement	different plants have different life spans	
249	The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion.	effect		movement of soil by wind or water	erosion	
250	In New York State, the shortest period of daylight occurs during December.	part		the shortest period of daylight	during December	
251	Some butterflies live an average of two weeks. This period of time is called a life span.	part		live a average of two weeks	life span	
252	Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.	condition		green plants make their own food	producers	
253	A meter describes an object's length.	requirement		meter	describes an object's length	
254	Frogs lay eggs that develop into tadpoles and then into adult frogs. This sequence of changes is an example of how living things go through a life cycle.	example		sequence of changes	how living things go through a life cycle	
255	A girl signals her friend by shining a flashlight on a mirror. Her friend can see the signal because light energy can be reflected from one object to another.	condition		light energy can be reflected from one object to another	see the signal	
256	Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.	requirement		Coloration	attract a mate	
257	Growth causes the leaves of a plant to become larger.	part		Growth	leaves of a plant to become larger	
258	A puddle drying in the sun is the best example of evaporation.	cause		puddle drying in the sun	evaporation	
259	A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.	cause		A fox grows thicker fur	keep warmer	
260	A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley.	part		pulley	move a flag up a flagpole	
261	The length of daylight in New York State changes from summer to fall by decreasing.	example		The length of daylight	changes from summer to fall by decreasing	
262	The functions of a plant's roots are to support the plant and take in water and nutrients.	effect		roots	support the plant and take in water and nutrients	
263	A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.	enable		decomposer	breaks down dead plants and animals	
264	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. If the day were cool instead of hot, the rainwater in the pan would have disappeared slower.	enable		day were cool	disappeared slower	
265	A snowy field is an environment in which a white rabbit would be best protected from predators.	purpose		snowy field	be best protected from predators	
266	An example of a poor health habit is eating candy instead of lunch.	part		eating candy instead of lunch	a poor health habit	
267	If an object is attracted to a magnet, the object is most likely made of metal.	cause		an object is attracted to a magnet	the object is most likely made of metal	
268	A girl eating an apple describes an organism taking in nutrients.	part		A girl eating an apple	an organism taking in nutrients	
269	A student drops a ball. Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.	effect		Gravity	the ball to fall to the ground	
270	One way animals usually respond to a sudden drop in temperature is by shivering.	purpose		shivering	respond to a sudden drop in temperature	
271	Gravity causes a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water.	part		Gravity	a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water	
272	Growth causes the leaves of a plant to become larger.	enable		Growth	leaves of a plant to become larger	
273	When a person speaks into a telephone, sound energy is changed mostly into electrical energy.	enable		speaks into a telephone	sound energy is changed into electricity energy	
274	A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.	purpose		a graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
275	In New York State, the shortest period of daylight occurs during December.	example		the shortest period of daylight	during December	
276	A decomposer is an organism that recycles nutrients.	condition		decomposer	recycles nutrients	
277	The functions of a plant's roots are to support the plant and take in water and nutrients.	condition		roots	support the plant and take in water and nutrients	
278	Fourth graders are planning a roller-skate race. Blacktop would be the best for this race.	purpose		Blacktop	this race	
279	An example of a poor health habit is eating candy instead of lunch.	enable		eating candy instead of lunch	a poor health habit	
280	A mother hen clucks loudly when danger is near and her chicks quickly gather around her. Sound helps the chicks receive this warning about danger from their mother.	enable		Sound	receive this warning about danger	
281	A student puts two identical plants in the same type and amount of soil. She gives them the same amount of water. She puts one of these plants near a sunny window and the other in a dark room. This experiment tests how the plants respond to light.	example		experiment tests	how the plants respond to light	
282	A girl signals her friend by shining a flashlight on a mirror. Her friend can see the signal because light energy can be reflected from one object to another.	effect		light energy can be reflected from one object to another	see the signal	
283	A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.	condition		opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out	adjust to hot temperatures	
284	Chemical energy is found in food.	purpose		Chemical energy	found in food	
285	A snowy field is an environment in which a white rabbit would be best protected from predators.	effect		snowy field	be best protected from predators	
286	A student drops a ball. Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.	example		Gravity	the ball to fall to the ground	
287	Water is usually found in nature as a liquid, solid, and gas.	purpose		Water	liquid, solid, and gas	
288	Temperature and sky conditions are both used to describe weather.	purpose		Temperature and sky conditions	describe	
289	A person does use mechanical energy to pedal a bicycle.	enable		mechanical energy	pedal a bicycle	
290	When an ice cube melts, its state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid.	part		an ice cube melts	state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid	
291	Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.	condition		Polluting	environment	
292	Cutting down a rain forest is most harmful to the natural environment.	example		Cutting down a rain forest	natural environment	
293	Sleet, rain, snow, and hail are forms of precipitation.	effect		Sleet, rain, snow, and hail	precipitation	
294	A meter describes an object's length.	cause		meter	describes an object's length	
295	A claws for obtaining food is correctly paired with its function.	effect		claws	obtaining food	
296	The functions of a plant's roots are to support the plant and take in water and nutrients.	cause		roots	support the plant and take in water and nutrients	
297	A person does use mechanical energy to pedal a bicycle.	purpose		mechanical energy	pedal a bicycle	
298	A student measured the volume of water in a pan. The student boiled the water for thirty minutes and then measured the volume of the water again. The volume of water most likely decreased.	effect		The student boiled the water	decreased	
299	A metal fork is the best conductor of electricity.	purpose		a metal fork	conductor of electricity	
300	Meters can be used to describe an objects length.	requirement		Meters	describe an objects length	
301	The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion.	cause		movement of soil by wind or water	erosion	
302	Sleet and hail are forms of precipitation.	example		Sleet and hail	precipitation	
303	Heat energy causes an ice cube to melt.	condition		Heat energy	an ice cube to melt	
304	All animals do need water, air, and food in order to survive.	condition		water, air and food	survive	
305	Fourth graders are planning a roller-skate race. Blacktop would be the best for this race.	enable		Blacktop	this race	
306	An iron nail is the best conductor of electricity.	condition		iron nail	conductor of electricity	
307	Many birds fly south for the winter. This adaptation is called migration.	effect		Many birds fly south for the winter	migration	
308	Centimeters can be used to describe the length of a desk.	example		Centimeters	describe the length of a desk	
309	Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.	cause		get energy	growth and repair from food	
310	During an experiment, a student reports that a liquid turned green when mixed with another liquid. This is an example of an observation.	condition		This	observation	
311	An example of a learned trait is being able to read.	example		a learned trait	being able to read	
312	A human offspring can inherit blue eyes.	requirement		A human offspring	blue eyes	
313	A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.	condition		A fox grows thicker fur	keep warmer	
314	A student crumples up a sheet of paper. Shape has changed.	effect		crumples up a sheet of paper	Shape has changed	
315	Grow and reproduce are carried out by all species of living things.	cause		Grow and reproduce	carried by all species of living things	
316	Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold are words that help describe weather.	example		Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold	describe weather	
317	Having blue eyes is inherited rather than learned.	cause		Having blue eyes	inherited	
318	A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity.	part		ball comes back down	gravity	
319	A girl eating an apple describes an organism taking in nutrients.	purpose		A girl eating an apple	an organism taking in nutrients	
320	Decrease the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.	enable		Decrease the temperature	change water from a liquid to a solid	
321	Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.	purpose		resting	maintain good health	
322	Some butterflies live an average of two weeks. This period of time is called a life span.	enable		live a average of two weeks	life span	
323	A bicycle is nonliving.	enable		bicycle	nonliving	
324	A puddle drying in the sun is the best example of evaporation.	example		puddle drying in the sun	evaporation	
325	The length of daylight in New York State changes from summer to fall by decreasing.	condition		The length of daylight	changes from summer to fall by decreasing	
326	Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.	requirement		get energy	growth and repair from food	
327	A bird migrating south is an example of an animal adapting to a change in the environment.	purpose		A bird migrating south	adapting to a change in the environment	
328	If an object is attracted to a magnet, the object is most likely made of metal.	effect		an object is attracted to a magnet	the object is most likely made of metal	
329	Apple trees can live for many years, but bean plants usually live for only a few months. This statement suggests that different plants have different life spans.	requirement		statement	different plants have different life spans	
330	A person does use mechanical energy to pedal a bicycle.	example		mechanical energy	pedal a bicycle	
331	A puppy can inherit spotted fur from its parents.	purpose		puppy	spotted fur from its parents	
332	A puddle drying in the sun is the best example of evaporation.	requirement		puddle drying in the sun	evaporation	
333	It rained on a hot summer afternoon and a puddle formed. After several hours, the puddle was gone. Precipitation followed by evaporation made the puddle form and then disappear.	purpose		Precipitation followed by evaporation 	form and then disappear	
334	A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.	effect		storing nuts	preparing for a seasonal change	
335	Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.	effect		resting	maintain good health	
336	A graduated cylinder would be best to measure the volume of a liquid.	effect		A graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
337	A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.	enable		a graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
338	Some birds fly south before winter each year. This is an example of migration.	enable		Some birds fly south before winter	migration	
339	A student should use a balance to compare the masses of two small rocks.	cause		balance	compare the masses of two small rocks	
340	Chemical energy is found in food.	enable		Chemical energy	found in food	
341	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. If the day were cool instead of hot, the rainwater in the pan would have disappeared slower.	effect		day were cool	disappeared slower	
342	An iron nail is the best conductor of electricity.	purpose		iron nail	conductor of electricity	
343	A stove is used to boil water in a pan is an example in which a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred.	effect		A stove is used to boil water in a pan	a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred	
344	A student riding a bicycle observes that it moves faster on a smooth road than on a rough road. This happens because the smooth road has less friction.	cause		This	smooth road has less friction	
345	A metal fork is the best conductor of electricity.	enable		a metal fork	conductor of electricity	
346	Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.	enable		resting	maintain good health	
347	Sleet, rain, snow, and hail are forms of precipitation.	example		Sleet, rain, snow, and hail	precipitation	
348	A turtle eating worms is an example of taking in nutrients.	example		A turtle eating worms	taking in nutrients	
349	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. Evaporation caused the rainwater in the pan to disappear as it sat outside in the hot air.	cause		Evaporation	disappear	
350	A student puts two identical plants in the same type and amount of soil. She gives them the same amount of water. She puts one of these plants near a sunny window and the other in a dark room. This experiment tests how the plants respond to light.	cause		experiment tests	how the plants respond to light	
351	Living things depend on energy from the Sun.	part		Sun	Living things	
352	A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.	requirement		storing nuts	preparing for a seasonal change	
353	Touch is used to determine an object's texture.	requirement		Touch	determine an object's texture	
354	Frogs lay eggs that develop into tadpoles and then into adult frogs. This sequence of changes is an example of how living things go through a life cycle.	effect		sequence of changes	how living things go through a life cycle	
355	Growing thicker fur in the winter helps some animals to keep warm.	condition		Growing thicker fur	keep warm	
356	In New York State, the shortest period of daylight occurs during December.	enable		the shortest period of daylight	during December	
357	A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.	example		storing nuts	preparing for a seasonal change	
358	An example of a learned trait is being able to read.	condition		a learned trait	being able to read	
359	A decomposer is an organism that recycles nutrients.	purpose		decomposer	recycles nutrients	
360	Chemical energy is found in food.	requirement		Chemical energy	found in food	
361	A bird migrating south is an example of an animal adapting to a change in the environment.	part		A bird migrating south	adapting to a change in the environment	
362	Exercising daily is one way that humans can maintain good health.	effect		Exercising daily	humans can maintain good health	
363	A graduated cylinder would be best to measure the volume of a liquid.	enable		A graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
364	A bird migrating south is an example of an animal adapting to a change in the environment.	enable		A bird migrating south	adapting to a change in the environment	
365	Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.	requirement		Exercising every day	good health habit	
366	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. Evaporation caused the rainwater in the pan to disappear as it sat outside in the hot air.	effect		Evaporation	disappear	
367	Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.	enable		Coloration	attract a mate	
368	When an ice cube melts, its state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid.	purpose		an ice cube melts	state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid	
369	When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.	requirement		decomposers	return nutrients	
370	When a baby shakes a rattle, it makes a noise. Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy.	example		a baby shakes a rattle	Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy	
371	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. Evaporation caused the rainwater in the pan to disappear as it sat outside in the hot air.	part		Evaporation	disappear	
372	The main function of a duck's webbed feet is to help the duck swim in water.	effect		a duck's webbed feet	swim in water	
373	Many birds fly south for the winter. This adaptation is called migration.	example		Many birds fly south for the winter	migration	
374	When an ice cube melts, its state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid.	example		an ice cube melts	state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid	
375	Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.	requirement		Mechanical energy	pushes a wooden block across the floor	
376	A decomposer is an organism that recycles nutrients.	example		decomposer	recycles nutrients	
377	A thick fur would best help a bear to survive a winter in New York State.	part		thick fur	survive in winter	
378	Many birds fly south for the winter. This adaptation is called migration.	part		Many birds fly south for the winter	migration	
379	Some birds fly south before winter each year. This is an example of migration.	effect		Some birds fly south before winter	migration	
380	A student measured the volume of water in a pan. The student boiled the water for thirty minutes and then measured the volume of the water again. The volume of water most likely decreased.	enable		The student boiled the water	decreased	
381	Heat is needed to change water from a liquid to a gas.	condition		Heat	change water from a liquid to a gas	
382	Meters can be used to describe an objects length.	example		Meters	describe an objects length	
383	A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.	purpose		opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out	adjust to hot temperatures	
384	A student measured the volume of water in a pan. The student boiled the water for thirty minutes and then measured the volume of the water again. The volume of water most likely decreased.	requirement		The student boiled the water	decreased	
385	Heat is needed to change water from a liquid to a gas.	cause		Heat	change water from a liquid to a gas	
386	The main function of scales on a fish is to protect the fish.	enable		scales of a fish	protect the fish	
387	A mother hen clucks loudly when danger is near and her chicks quickly gather around her. Sound helps the chicks receive this warning about danger from their mother.	example		Sound	receive this warning about danger	
388	Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.	condition		Gravity	rocks to roll downhill	
389	A mother hen clucks loudly when danger is near and her chicks quickly gather around her. Sound helps the chicks receive this warning about danger from their mother.	cause		Sound	receive this warning about danger	
390	Sleet, rain, snow, and hail are forms of precipitation.	purpose		Sleet, rain, snow, and hail	precipitation	
391	A mother hen clucks loudly when danger is near and her chicks quickly gather around her. Sound helps the chicks receive this warning about danger from their mother.	purpose		Sound	receive this warning about danger	
392	Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.	example		resting	maintain good health	
393	Having blue eyes is inherited rather than learned.	effect		Having blue eyes	inherited	
394	Temperatures below freezing are expected overnight. Covering them might be done to protect plants growing outside.	enable		Covering them	protect plants growing outside	
395	A girl eating an apple describes an organism taking in nutrients.	requirement		A girl eating an apple	an organism taking in nutrients	
396	The length of daylight in New York State changes from summer to fall by decreasing.	cause		The length of daylight	changes from summer to fall by decreasing	
397	A student has a ball of clay that sinks when placed in a pan of water. He should change shape to make the clay float.	cause		change shape	make the clay float	
398	Flower of a plant produces the seeds.	example		Flower of a plant	seeds	
399	Humans depend on water from the environment.	requirement		water	humans	
400	Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.	part		get energy	growth and repair from food	
401	A metal fork is the best conductor of electricity.	example		a metal fork	conductor of electricity	
402	Cutting down a rain forest is most harmful to the natural environment.	cause		Cutting down a rain forest	natural environment	
403	A bird migrating south is an example of an animal adapting to a change in the environment.	cause		A bird migrating south	adapting to a change in the environment	
404	A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects. The student feels the objects but does not look into the bag. The student can most likely identify shape.	example		A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects	The student can most likely identify shape	
405	Sight can be used to determine an objects ability to reflect light.	purpose		Sight	determine an objects ability to reflect light	
406	A human offspring can inherit blue eyes.	condition		A human offspring	blue eyes	
407	In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during June.	enable		the longest period of daylight	during June	
408	Sleet and hail are forms of precipitation.	requirement		Sleet and hail	precipitation	
409	All animals do need water, air, and food in order to survive.	part		water, air and food	survive	
410	When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.	enable		decomposers	return nutrients	
411	Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.	part		Polluting	environment	
412	A girl eating an apple describes an organism taking in nutrients.	effect		A girl eating an apple	an organism taking in nutrients	
413	Grow and reproduce are carried out by all species of living things.	example		Grow and reproduce	carried by all species of living things	
414	Growth causes the leaves of a plant to become larger.	condition		Growth	leaves of a plant to become larger	
415	A student drops a ball. Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.	condition		Gravity	the ball to fall to the ground	
416	Many birds fly south for the winter. This adaptation is called migration.	cause		Many birds fly south for the winter	migration	
417	A pumpkin is a fruit.	condition		pumpkin	a fruit	
418	Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.	enable		Exercising every day	good health habit	
419	Cutting down a rain forest is most harmful to the natural environment.	part		Cutting down a rain forest	natural environment	
420	Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.	requirement		Polluting	environment	
421	Sleet, rain, snow, and hail are forms of precipitation.	part		Sleet, rain, snow, and hail	precipitation	
422	Heat energy causes an ice cube to melt.	example		Heat energy	an ice cube to melt	
423	Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.	part		sunlight	make food	
424	A girl signals her friend by shining a flashlight on a mirror. Her friend can see the signal because light energy can be reflected from one object to another.	part		light energy can be reflected from one object to another	see the signal	
425	Chemical energy is found in food.	condition		Chemical energy	found in food	
426	A human offspring can inherit blue eyes.	cause		A human offspring	blue eyes	
427	It rained on a hot summer afternoon and a puddle formed. After several hours, the puddle was gone. Precipitation followed by evaporation made the puddle form and then disappear.	requirement		Precipitation followed by evaporation 	form and then disappear	
428	A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects. The student feels the objects but does not look into the bag. The student can most likely identify shape.	cause		A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects	The student can most likely identify shape	
429	A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.	part		opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out	adjust to hot temperatures	
430	Exercising daily is one way that humans can maintain good health.	enable		Exercising daily	humans can maintain good health	
431	Having blue eyes is inherited rather than learned.	condition		Having blue eyes	inherited	
432	A marble is dropped in a glass of water. Gravity pulls the marble to the bottom of the glass.	example		Gravity	pulls the marble to the bottom	
433	Heat is needed to change water from a liquid to a gas.	part		Heat	change water from a liquid to a gas	
434	It takes one week for Earth to rotate on its axis seven times.	example		Earth to rotate	one week	
435	It rained on a hot summer afternoon and a puddle formed. After several hours, the puddle was gone. Precipitation followed by evaporation made the puddle form and then disappear.	part		Precipitation followed by evaporation 	form and then disappear	
436	Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.	effect		Exercising every day	good health habit	
437	When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.	condition		decomposers	return nutrients	
438	A girl signals her friend by shining a flashlight on a mirror. Her friend can see the signal because light energy can be reflected from one object to another.	enable		light energy can be reflected from one object to another	see the signal	
439	The functions of a plant's roots are to support the plant and take in water and nutrients.	example		roots	support the plant and take in water and nutrients	
440	Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.	purpose		sunlight	make food	
441	Sense of smell helps a fox find food.	requirement		Sense of smell	find food	
442	Decrease the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.	requirement		Decrease the temperature	change water from a liquid to a solid	
443	During an experiment, a student reports that a liquid turned green when mixed with another liquid. This is an example of an observation.	example		This	observation	
444	A duck's feathers are covered with a natural oil that keeps the duck dry. This is a special feature ducks have that helps them adapt to their environment.	effect		special feature	adapt to their environment	
445	Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.	requirement		Gravity	rocks to roll downhill	
446	A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects. The student feels the objects but does not look into the bag. The student can most likely identify shape.	enable		A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects	The student can most likely identify shape	
447	A girl signals her friend by shining a flashlight on a mirror. Her friend can see the signal because light energy can be reflected from one object to another.	example		light energy can be reflected from one object to another	see the signal	
448	Growing thicker fur in the winter helps some animals to keep warm.	enable		Growing thicker fur	keep warm	
449	Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.	enable		Polluting	environment	
450	Living things depend on energy from the Sun.	condition		Sun	Living things	
451	Apple trees can live for many years, but bean plants usually live for only a few months. This statement suggests that different plants have different life spans.	effect		statement	different plants have different life spans	
452	A graduated cylinder would be best to measure the volume of a liquid.	condition		A graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
453	Humans depend on water from the environment.	part		water	humans	
454	A turtle eating worms is an example of taking in nutrients.	requirement		A turtle eating worms	taking in nutrients	
455	Decrease the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.	cause		Decrease the temperature	change water from a liquid to a solid	
456	When a person speaks into a telephone, sound energy is changed mostly into electrical energy.	cause		speaks into a telephone	sound energy is changed into electricity energy	
457	Temperatures below freezing are expected overnight. Covering them might be done to protect plants growing outside.	effect		Covering them	protect plants growing outside	
458	The main function of scales on a fish is to protect the fish.	example		scales of a fish	protect the fish	
459	A turtle eating worms is an example of taking in nutrients.	cause		A turtle eating worms	taking in nutrients	
460	Fourth graders are planning a roller-skate race. Blacktop would be the best for this race.	condition		Blacktop	this race	
461	Touch is used to determine an object's texture.	cause		Touch	determine an object's texture	
462	Some birds fly south before winter each year. This is an example of migration.	condition		Some birds fly south before winter	migration	
463	Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.	example		Sunlight	the water cycle	
464	Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.	effect		Mechanical energy	pushes a wooden block across the floor	
465	A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects. The student feels the objects but does not look into the bag. The student can most likely identify shape.	effect		A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects	The student can most likely identify shape	
466	Sleet and hail are forms of precipitation.	condition		Sleet and hail	precipitation	
467	A pumpkin is a fruit.	cause		pumpkin	a fruit	
468	Growth causes the leaves of a plant to become larger.	purpose		Growth	leaves of a plant to become larger	
469	Sleet, rain, snow, and hail are forms of precipitation.	cause		Sleet, rain, snow, and hail	precipitation	
470	When a person speaks into a telephone, sound energy is changed mostly into electrical energy.	effect		speaks into a telephone	sound energy is changed into electricity energy	
471	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. Evaporation caused the rainwater in the pan to disappear as it sat outside in the hot air.	enable		Evaporation	disappear	
472	In New York State, the shortest period of daylight occurs during December.	condition		the shortest period of daylight	during December	
473	A bird migrating south is an example of an animal adapting to a change in the environment.	example		A bird migrating south	adapting to a change in the environment	
474	A student riding a bicycle observes that it moves faster on a smooth road than on a rough road. This happens because the smooth road has less friction.	part		This	smooth road has less friction	
475	If an object is attracted to a magnet, the object is most likely made of metal.	example		an object is attracted to a magnet	the object is most likely made of metal	
476	The length of daylight in New York State changes from summer to fall by decreasing.	purpose		The length of daylight	changes from summer to fall by decreasing	
477	Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold are words that help describe weather.	effect		Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold	describe weather	
478	Temperatures below freezing are expected overnight. Covering them might be done to protect plants growing outside.	requirement		Covering them	protect plants growing outside	
479	Winter season is a season of the year during which a rabbits fur would be thickest.	example		Winter season	a rabbits fur would be thickest	
480	Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.	example		green plants make their own food	producers	
481	One way animals usually respond to a sudden drop in temperature is by shivering.	enable		shivering	respond to a sudden drop in temperature	
482	During winter, the white fur of an arctic fox blends in with the snow. This adaptation is called camouflage.	part		adaptation	camouflag	
483	The functions of a plant's roots are to support the plant and take in water and nutrients.	part		roots	support the plant and take in water and nutrients	
484	Water is usually found in nature as a liquid, solid, and gas.	condition		Water	liquid, solid, and gas	
485	Water is usually found in nature as a liquid, solid, and gas.	requirement		Water	liquid, solid, and gas	
486	Centimeters can be used to describe the length of a desk.	enable		Centimeters	describe the length of a desk	
487	A snowy field is an environment in which a white rabbit would be best protected from predators.	example		snowy field	be best protected from predators	
488	A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.	purpose		storing nuts	preparing for a seasonal change	
489	Some butterflies live an average of two weeks. This period of time is called a life span.	example		live a average of two weeks	life span	
490	Flower of a plant produces the seeds.	requirement		Flower of a plant	seeds	
491	Some butterflies live an average of two weeks. This period of time is called a life span.	condition		live a average of two weeks	life span	
492	A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. She should use a hand lens to get a better look at the spots.	part		a hand lens	get a better look at the spots	
493	A student riding a bicycle observes that it moves faster on a smooth road than on a rough road. This happens because the smooth road has less friction.	example		This	smooth road has less friction	
494	A metal fork is the best conductor of electricity.	part		a metal fork	conductor of electricity	
495	Temperature and sky conditions are both used to describe weather.	part		Temperature and sky conditions	describe	
496	When an ice cube melts, its state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid.	enable		an ice cube melts	state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid	
497	Having blue eyes is inherited rather than learned.	enable		Having blue eyes	inherited	
498	Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.	enable		Sunlight	the water cycle	
499	A thick fur would best help a bear to survive a winter in New York State.	example		thick fur	survive in winter	
500	The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion.	part		movement of soil by wind or water	erosion	
501	Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.	purpose		Mechanical energy	pushes a wooden block across the floor	
502	A meter describes an object's length.	enable		meter	describes an object's length	
503	A metal fork is the best conductor of electricity.	cause		a metal fork	conductor of electricity	
504	An iron nail is the best conductor of electricity.	example		iron nail	conductor of electricity	
505	A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity.	cause		ball comes back down	gravity	
506	The main function of a duck's webbed feet is to help the duck swim in water.	requirement		a duck's webbed feet	swim in water	
507	Decrease the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.	part		Decrease the temperature	change water from a liquid to a solid	
508	A snowy field is an environment in which a white rabbit would be best protected from predators.	part		snowy field	be best protected from predators	
509	In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during June.	requirement		the longest period of daylight	during June	
510	Gravity causes a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water.	example		Gravity	a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water	
511	Heat energy causes an ice cube to melt.	enable		Heat energy	an ice cube to melt	
512	Some birds fly south before winter each year. This is an example of migration.	part		Some birds fly south before winter	migration	
513	A student has a ball of clay that sinks when placed in a pan of water. He should change shape to make the clay float.	part		change shape	make the clay float	
514	Winter season is a season of the year during which a rabbits fur would be thickest.	condition		Winter season	a rabbits fur would be thickest	
515	An iron nail is the best conductor of electricity.	part		iron nail	conductor of electricity	
516	A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.	condition		decomposer	breaks down dead plants and animals	
517	Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.	cause		Sunlight	the water cycle	
518	The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion.	requirement		movement of soil by wind or water	erosion	
519	A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.	part		a graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
520	It takes one week for Earth to rotate on its axis seven times.	part		Earth to rotate	one week	
521	A puppy can inherit spotted fur from its parents.	requirement		puppy	spotted fur from its parents	
522	An example of a learned trait is being able to read.	purpose		a learned trait	being able to read	
523	A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.	condition		storing nuts	preparing for a seasonal change	
524	Sense of smell helps a fox find food.	example		Sense of smell	find food	
525	Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.	purpose		Coloration	attract a mate	
526	The length of daylight in New York State changes from summer to fall by decreasing.	requirement		The length of daylight	changes from summer to fall by decreasing	
527	A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.	effect		opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out	adjust to hot temperatures	
528	Temperature and sky conditions are both used to describe weather.	example		Temperature and sky conditions	describe	
529	A duck's feathers are covered with a natural oil that keeps the duck dry. This is a special feature ducks have that helps them adapt to their environment.	condition		special feature	adapt to their environment	
530	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. Evaporation caused the rainwater in the pan to disappear as it sat outside in the hot air.	condition		Evaporation	disappear	
531	Winter season is a season of the year during which a rabbits fur would be thickest.	enable		Winter season	a rabbits fur would be thickest	
532	When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.	cause		decomposers	return nutrients	
533	Meters can be used to describe an objects length.	purpose		Meters	describe an objects length	
534	Flower of a plant produces the seeds.	cause		Flower of a plant	seeds	
535	Exercising daily is one way that humans can maintain good health.	condition		Exercising daily	humans can maintain good health	
536	In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during June.	example		the longest period of daylight	during June	
537	A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.	enable		opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out	adjust to hot temperatures	
538	A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. She should use a hand lens to get a better look at the spots.	enable		a hand lens	get a better look at the spots	
539	A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects. The student feels the objects but does not look into the bag. The student can most likely identify shape.	condition		A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects	The student can most likely identify shape	
540	A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.	example		heat that produces the smoke	friction	
541	A student drops a ball. Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.	enable		Gravity	the ball to fall to the ground	
542	A person does use mechanical energy to pedal a bicycle.	effect		mechanical energy	pedal a bicycle	
543	A thick fur would best help a bear to survive a winter in New York State.	cause		thick fur	survive in winter	
544	Temperatures below freezing are expected overnight. Covering them might be done to protect plants growing outside.	part		Covering them	protect plants growing outside	
545	The main function of a duck's webbed feet is to help the duck swim in water.	part		a duck's webbed feet	swim in water	
546	A puddle drying in the sun is the best example of evaporation.	enable		puddle drying in the sun	evaporation	
547	A student riding a bicycle observes that it moves faster on a smooth road than on a rough road. This happens because the smooth road has less friction.	effect		This	smooth road has less friction	
548	When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.	effect		decomposers	return nutrients	
549	Water freezing is an example of a liquid changing to a solid.	effect		Water freezing	a liquid changing to a solid	
550	A thick fur would best help a bear to survive a winter in New York State.	condition		thick fur	survive in winter	
551	When a person speaks into a telephone, sound energy is changed mostly into electrical energy.	purpose		speaks into a telephone	sound energy is changed into electricity energy	
552	An example of a learned trait is being able to read.	part		a learned trait	being able to read	
553	An example of a learned trait is being able to read.	enable		a learned trait	being able to read	
554	Growing thicker fur in the winter helps some animals to keep warm.	purpose		Growing thicker fur	keep warm	
555	A marble is dropped in a glass of water. Gravity pulls the marble to the bottom of the glass.	enable		Gravity	pulls the marble to the bottom	
556	Sense of smell helps a fox find food.	part		Sense of smell	find food	
557	Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.	effect		Sunlight	the water cycle	
558	Rotation of Earth causes day and night.	enable		Rotation of Earth	day and night	
559	A student drops a ball. Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.	purpose		Gravity	the ball to fall to the ground	
560	A mother hen clucks loudly when danger is near and her chicks quickly gather around her. Sound helps the chicks receive this warning about danger from their mother.	requirement		Sound	receive this warning about danger	
561	A student has a ball of clay that sinks when placed in a pan of water. He should change shape to make the clay float.	effect		change shape	make the clay float	
562	Temperatures below freezing are expected overnight. Covering them might be done to protect plants growing outside.	purpose		Covering them	protect plants growing outside	
563	Sight can be used to determine an objects ability to reflect light.	part		Sight	determine an objects ability to reflect light	
564	A claws for obtaining food is correctly paired with its function.	condition		claws	obtaining food	
565	Temperatures below freezing are expected overnight. Covering them might be done to protect plants growing outside.	cause		Covering them	protect plants growing outside	
566	It rained on a hot summer afternoon and a puddle formed. After several hours, the puddle was gone. Precipitation followed by evaporation made the puddle form and then disappear.	effect		Precipitation followed by evaporation 	form and then disappear	
567	Humans depend on water from the environment.	enable		water	humans	
568	An example of a poor health habit is eating candy instead of lunch.	requirement		eating candy instead of lunch	a poor health habit	
569	In New York State, the shortest period of daylight occurs during December.	effect		the shortest period of daylight	during December	
570	A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.	effect		A fox grows thicker fur	keep warmer	
571	A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.	condition		a graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
572	A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. She should use a hand lens to get a better look at the spots.	purpose		a hand lens	get a better look at the spots	
573	Temperature and sky conditions are both used to describe weather.	enable		Temperature and sky conditions	describe	
574	A decrease in air temperature from 60°F to 35°F would most likely cause a person to shiver.	condition		A decrease in air temperature	a person to shiver	
575	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. Evaporation caused the rainwater in the pan to disappear as it sat outside in the hot air.	purpose		Evaporation	disappear	
576	It rained on a hot summer afternoon and a puddle formed. After several hours, the puddle was gone. Precipitation followed by evaporation made the puddle form and then disappear.	condition		Precipitation followed by evaporation 	form and then disappear	
577	Centimeters can be used to describe the length of a desk.	requirement		Centimeters	describe the length of a desk	
578	One way animals usually respond to a sudden drop in temperature is by shivering.	part		shivering	respond to a sudden drop in temperature	
579	The length of daylight in New York State changes from summer to fall by decreasing.	effect		The length of daylight	changes from summer to fall by decreasing	
580	When a baby shakes a rattle, it makes a noise. Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy.	enable		a baby shakes a rattle	Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy	
581	A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.	enable		A fox grows thicker fur	keep warmer	
582	Sight can be used to determine an objects ability to reflect light.	effect		Sight	determine an objects ability to reflect light	
583	When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.	part		decomposers	return nutrients	
584	A student crumples up a sheet of paper. Shape has changed.	enable		crumples up a sheet of paper	Shape has changed	
585	Gravity causes a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water.	effect		Gravity	a marble to sink to the bottom of a glass of water	
586	A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.	effect		heat that produces the smoke	friction	
587	A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. She should use a hand lens to get a better look at the spots.	requirement		a hand lens	get a better look at the spots	
588	A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects. The student feels the objects but does not look into the bag. The student can most likely identify shape.	part		A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects	The student can most likely identify shape	
589	During winter, the white fur of an arctic fox blends in with the snow. This adaptation is called camouflage.	requirement		adaptation	camouflag	
590	An example of a poor health habit is eating candy instead of lunch.	effect		eating candy instead of lunch	a poor health habit	
591	A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.	cause		storing nuts	preparing for a seasonal change	
592	Winter season is a season of the year during which a rabbits fur would be thickest.	effect		Winter season	a rabbits fur would be thickest	
593	A duck's feathers are covered with a natural oil that keeps the duck dry. This is a special feature ducks have that helps them adapt to their environment.	part		special feature	adapt to their environment	
594	A marble is dropped in a glass of water. Gravity pulls the marble to the bottom of the glass.	condition		Gravity	pulls the marble to the bottom	
595	The functions of a plant's roots are to support the plant and take in water and nutrients.	requirement		roots	support the plant and take in water and nutrients	
596	A human offspring can inherit blue eyes.	example		A human offspring	blue eyes	
597	Heat is needed to change water from a liquid to a gas.	enable		Heat	change water from a liquid to a gas	
598	A mother hen clucks loudly when danger is near and her chicks quickly gather around her. Sound helps the chicks receive this warning about danger from their mother.	part		Sound	receive this warning about danger	
599	A claws for obtaining food is correctly paired with its function.	requirement		claws	obtaining food	
600	A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.	condition		heat that produces the smoke	friction	
601	Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.	part		green plants make their own food	producers	
602	Growth causes the leaves of a plant to become larger.	example		Growth	leaves of a plant to become larger	
603	Touch is used to determine an object's texture.	enable		Touch	determine an object's texture	
604	A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.	requirement		a graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
605	A student riding a bicycle observes that it moves faster on a smooth road than on a rough road. This happens because the smooth road has less friction.	requirement		This	smooth road has less friction	
606	Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.	cause		Coloration	attract a mate	
607	Cutting down a rain forest is most harmful to the natural environment.	requirement		Cutting down a rain forest	natural environment	
608	During an experiment, a student reports that a liquid turned green when mixed with another liquid. This is an example of an observation.	cause		This	observation	
609	An example of a poor health habit is eating candy instead of lunch.	condition		eating candy instead of lunch	a poor health habit	
610	It rained on a hot summer afternoon and a puddle formed. After several hours, the puddle was gone. Precipitation followed by evaporation made the puddle form and then disappear.	cause		Precipitation followed by evaporation 	form and then disappear	
611	Chemical energy is found in food.	example		Chemical energy	found in food	
612	A stove is used to boil water in a pan is an example in which a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred.	example		A stove is used to boil water in a pan	a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred	
613	A stove is used to boil water in a pan is an example in which a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred.	purpose		A stove is used to boil water in a pan	a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred	
614	All animals do need water, air, and food in order to survive.	requirement		water, air and food	survive	
615	Frogs lay eggs that develop into tadpoles and then into adult frogs. This sequence of changes is an example of how living things go through a life cycle.	requirement		sequence of changes	how living things go through a life cycle	
616	The main function of scales on a fish is to protect the fish.	purpose		scales of a fish	protect the fish	
617	A decrease in air temperature from 60°F to 35°F would most likely cause a person to shiver.	cause		A decrease in air temperature	a person to shiver	
618	Rotation of Earth causes day and night.	effect		Rotation of Earth	day and night	
619	Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.	condition		sunlight	make food	
620	Sense of smell helps a fox find food.	condition		Sense of smell	find food	
621	A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley.	requirement		pulley	move a flag up a flagpole	
622	A girl signals her friend by shining a flashlight on a mirror. Her friend can see the signal because light energy can be reflected from one object to another.	cause		light energy can be reflected from one object to another	see the signal	
623	Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold are words that help describe weather.	requirement		Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold	describe weather	
624	When a person speaks into a telephone, sound energy is changed mostly into electrical energy.	part		speaks into a telephone	sound energy is changed into electricity energy	
625	Humans depend on water from the environment.	effect		water	humans	
626	A student should use a balance to compare the masses of two small rocks.	example		balance	compare the masses of two small rocks	
627	A pumpkin is a fruit.	effect		pumpkin	a fruit	
628	A student measured the volume of water in a pan. The student boiled the water for thirty minutes and then measured the volume of the water again. The volume of water most likely decreased.	cause		The student boiled the water	decreased	
629	When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.	example		decomposers	return nutrients	
630	A puppy can inherit spotted fur from its parents.	part		puppy	spotted fur from its parents	
631	A human offspring can inherit blue eyes.	enable		A human offspring	blue eyes	
632	If an object is attracted to a magnet, the object is most likely made of metal.	condition		an object is attracted to a magnet	the object is most likely made of metal	
633	It takes one week for Earth to rotate on its axis seven times.	effect		Earth to rotate	one week	
634	Growth causes the leaves of a plant to become larger.	requirement		Growth	leaves of a plant to become larger	
635	A pumpkin is a fruit.	purpose		pumpkin	a fruit	
636	Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.	cause		Polluting	environment	
637	A marble is dropped in a glass of water. Gravity pulls the marble to the bottom of the glass.	effect		Gravity	pulls the marble to the bottom	
638	Centimeters can be used to describe the length of a desk.	part		Centimeters	describe the length of a desk	
639	Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.	requirement		sunlight	make food	
640	Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.	cause		Mechanical energy	pushes a wooden block across the floor	
641	A student puts two identical plants in the same type and amount of soil. She gives them the same amount of water. She puts one of these plants near a sunny window and the other in a dark room. This experiment tests how the plants respond to light.	requirement		experiment tests	how the plants respond to light	
642	A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.	cause		a graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
643	When a baby shakes a rattle, it makes a noise. Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy.	condition		a baby shakes a rattle	Mechanical energy was changed to sound energy	
644	A turtle eating worms is an example of taking in nutrients.	effect		A turtle eating worms	taking in nutrients	
645	Exercising daily is one way that humans can maintain good health.	example		Exercising daily	humans can maintain good health	
646	Cutting down a rain forest is most harmful to the natural environment.	enable		Cutting down a rain forest	natural environment	
647	A puppy can inherit spotted fur from its parents.	cause		puppy	spotted fur from its parents	
648	A student puts two identical plants in the same type and amount of soil. She gives them the same amount of water. She puts one of these plants near a sunny window and the other in a dark room. This experiment tests how the plants respond to light.	purpose		experiment tests	how the plants respond to light	
649	Rotation of Earth causes day and night.	requirement		Rotation of Earth	day and night	
650	Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.	condition		Coloration	attract a mate	
651	Sense of smell helps a fox find food.	effect		Sense of smell	find food	
652	Grow and reproduce are carried out by all species of living things.	enable		Grow and reproduce	carried by all species of living things	
653	In New York State, the shortest period of daylight occurs during December.	cause		the shortest period of daylight	during December	
654	A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley.	condition		pulley	move a flag up a flagpole	
655	All animals do need water, air, and food in order to survive.	enable		water, air and food	survive	
656	A student should use a balance to compare the masses of two small rocks.	effect		balance	compare the masses of two small rocks	
657	Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold are words that help describe weather.	cause		Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold	describe weather	
658	A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.	purpose		decomposer	breaks down dead plants and animals	
659	Heat is needed to change water from a liquid to a gas.	purpose		Heat	change water from a liquid to a gas	
660	A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects. The student feels the objects but does not look into the bag. The student can most likely identify shape.	purpose		A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects	The student can most likely identify shape	
661	A human offspring can inherit blue eyes.	effect		A human offspring	blue eyes	
662	Flower of a plant produces the seeds.	condition		Flower of a plant	seeds	
663	A marble is dropped in a glass of water. Gravity pulls the marble to the bottom of the glass.	part		Gravity	pulls the marble to the bottom	
664	Fourth graders are planning a roller-skate race. Blacktop would be the best for this race.	requirement		Blacktop	this race	
665	Decrease the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.	purpose		Decrease the temperature	change water from a liquid to a solid	
666	A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.	example		decomposer	breaks down dead plants and animals	
667	Heat energy causes an ice cube to melt.	purpose		Heat energy	an ice cube to melt	
668	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. If the day were cool instead of hot, the rainwater in the pan would have disappeared slower.	example		day were cool	disappeared slower	
669	Water is usually found in nature as a liquid, solid, and gas.	part		Water	liquid, solid, and gas	
670	Grow and reproduce are carried out by all species of living things.	effect		Grow and reproduce	carried by all species of living things	
671	Sense of smell helps a fox find food.	purpose		Sense of smell	find food	
672	Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.	enable		Mechanical energy	pushes a wooden block across the floor	
673	Cutting down a rain forest is most harmful to the natural environment.	purpose		Cutting down a rain forest	natural environment	
674	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. If the day were cool instead of hot, the rainwater in the pan would have disappeared slower.	condition		day were cool	disappeared slower	
675	Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.	cause		sunlight	make food	
676	The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion.	enable		movement of soil by wind or water	erosion	
677	A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects. The student feels the objects but does not look into the bag. The student can most likely identify shape.	requirement		A student reaches one hand into a bag filled with smooth objects	The student can most likely identify shape	
678	A girl eating an apple describes an organism taking in nutrients.	condition		A girl eating an apple	an organism taking in nutrients	
679	Rotation of Earth causes day and night.	condition		Rotation of Earth	day and night	
680	Humans depend on water from the environment.	condition		water	humans	
681	A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.	requirement		opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out	adjust to hot temperatures	
682	Temperatures below freezing are expected overnight. Covering them might be done to protect plants growing outside.	condition		Covering them	protect plants growing outside	
683	A puddle drying in the sun is the best example of evaporation.	condition		puddle drying in the sun	evaporation	
684	Sleet and hail are forms of precipitation.	part		Sleet and hail	precipitation	
685	A student crumples up a sheet of paper. Shape has changed.	cause		crumples up a sheet of paper	Shape has changed	
686	Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.	effect		get energy	growth and repair from food	
687	A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.	part		A fox grows thicker fur	keep warmer	
688	A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.	example		opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out	adjust to hot temperatures	
689	A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.	purpose		A fox grows thicker fur	keep warmer	
690	One way animals usually respond to a sudden drop in temperature is by shivering.	effect		shivering	respond to a sudden drop in temperature	
691	When an ice cube melts, its state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid.	cause		an ice cube melts	state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid	
692	A graduated cylinder would be best to measure the volume of a liquid.	cause		A graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
693	Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.	requirement		resting	maintain good health	
694	A decrease in air temperature from 60°F to 35°F would most likely cause a person to shiver.	example		A decrease in air temperature	a person to shiver	
695	Fourth graders are planning a roller-skate race. Blacktop would be the best for this race.	cause		Blacktop	this race	
696	Flower of a plant produces the seeds.	purpose		Flower of a plant	seeds	
697	Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.	condition		Sunlight	the water cycle	
698	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. Evaporation caused the rainwater in the pan to disappear as it sat outside in the hot air.	requirement		Evaporation	disappear	
699	The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion.	example		movement of soil by wind or water	erosion	
700	Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.	effect		sunlight	make food	
701	A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.	requirement		A fox grows thicker fur	keep warmer	
702	Humans depend on water from the environment.	cause		water	humans	
703	Grow and reproduce are carried out by all species of living things.	purpose		Grow and reproduce	carried by all species of living things	
704	A thick fur would best help a bear to survive a winter in New York State.	effect		thick fur	survive in winter	
705	In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during June.	effect		the longest period of daylight	during June	
706	All animals do need water, air, and food in order to survive.	purpose		water, air and food	survive	
707	Touch is used to determine an object's texture.	condition		Touch	determine an object's texture	
708	It takes one week for Earth to rotate on its axis seven times.	enable		Earth to rotate	one week	
709	Decrease the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.	example		Decrease the temperature	change water from a liquid to a solid	
710	A snowy field is an environment in which a white rabbit would be best protected from predators.	cause		snowy field	be best protected from predators	
711	Touch is used to determine an object's texture.	part		Touch	determine an object's texture	
712	During winter, the white fur of an arctic fox blends in with the snow. This adaptation is called camouflage.	purpose		adaptation	camouflag	
713	In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during June.	part		the longest period of daylight	during June	
714	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. If the day were cool instead of hot, the rainwater in the pan would have disappeared slower.	cause		day were cool	disappeared slower	
715	A stove is used to boil water in a pan is an example in which a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred.	part		A stove is used to boil water in a pan	a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred	
716	A marble is dropped in a glass of water. Gravity pulls the marble to the bottom of the glass.	cause		Gravity	pulls the marble to the bottom	
717	Having blue eyes is inherited rather than learned.	part		Having blue eyes	inherited	
718	Growing thicker fur in the winter helps some animals to keep warm.	requirement		Growing thicker fur	keep warm	
719	A student should use a balance to compare the masses of two small rocks.	part		balance	compare the masses of two small rocks	
720	Frogs lay eggs that develop into tadpoles and then into adult frogs. This sequence of changes is an example of how living things go through a life cycle.	cause		sequence of changes	how living things go through a life cycle	
721	Chemical energy is found in food.	part		Chemical energy	found in food	
722	A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.	requirement		heat that produces the smoke	friction	
723	Some butterflies live an average of two weeks. This period of time is called a life span.	requirement		live a average of two weeks	life span	
724	A bird migrating south is an example of an animal adapting to a change in the environment.	requirement		A bird migrating south	adapting to a change in the environment	
725	Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.	purpose		Exercising every day	good health habit	
726	Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.	part		Mechanical energy	pushes a wooden block across the floor	
727	A student crumples up a sheet of paper. Shape has changed.	example		crumples up a sheet of paper	Shape has changed	
728	Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.	purpose		get energy	growth and repair from food	
729	A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley.	example		pulley	move a flag up a flagpole	
730	A student riding a bicycle observes that it moves faster on a smooth road than on a rough road. This happens because the smooth road has less friction.	purpose		This	smooth road has less friction	
731	A decrease in air temperature from 60°F to 35°F would most likely cause a person to shiver.	requirement		A decrease in air temperature	a person to shiver	
732	Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold are words that help describe weather.	enable		Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold	describe weather	
733	An example of a learned trait is being able to read.	effect		a learned trait	being able to read	
734	A student crumples up a sheet of paper. Shape has changed.	purpose		crumples up a sheet of paper	Shape has changed	
735	Exercising daily is one way that humans can maintain good health.	part		Exercising daily	humans can maintain good health	
736	Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.	condition		resting	maintain good health	
737	Apple trees can live for many years, but bean plants usually live for only a few months. This statement suggests that different plants have different life spans.	condition		statement	different plants have different life spans	
738	A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.	enable		storing nuts	preparing for a seasonal change	
739	A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.	example		A fox grows thicker fur	keep warmer	
740	The main function of scales on a fish is to protect the fish.	part		scales of a fish	protect the fish	
741	Chemical energy is found in food.	cause		Chemical energy	found in food	
742	A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.	part		storing nuts	preparing for a seasonal change	
743	Exercising daily is one way that humans can maintain good health.	purpose		Exercising daily	humans can maintain good health	
744	Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.	part		Coloration	attract a mate	
745	A student riding a bicycle observes that it moves faster on a smooth road than on a rough road. This happens because the smooth road has less friction.	condition		This	smooth road has less friction	
746	A claws for obtaining food is correctly paired with its function.	example		claws	obtaining food	
747	Temperature and sky conditions are both used to describe weather.	condition		Temperature and sky conditions	describe	
748	A bird migrating south is an example of an animal adapting to a change in the environment.	effect		A bird migrating south	adapting to a change in the environment	
749	Water is usually found in nature as a liquid, solid, and gas.	example		Water	liquid, solid, and gas	
750	A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. She should use a hand lens to get a better look at the spots.	condition		a hand lens	get a better look at the spots	
751	A puppy can inherit spotted fur from its parents.	example		puppy	spotted fur from its parents	
752	Frogs lay eggs that develop into tadpoles and then into adult frogs. This sequence of changes is an example of how living things go through a life cycle.	condition		sequence of changes	how living things go through a life cycle	
753	A person does use mechanical energy to pedal a bicycle.	part		mechanical energy	pedal a bicycle	
754	A girl eating an apple describes an organism taking in nutrients.	enable		A girl eating an apple	an organism taking in nutrients	
755	An example of a learned trait is being able to read.	requirement		a learned trait	being able to read	
756	Some birds fly south before winter each year. This is an example of migration.	requirement		Some birds fly south before winter	migration	
757	Heat energy causes an ice cube to melt.	cause		Heat energy	an ice cube to melt	
758	One way animals usually respond to a sudden drop in temperature is by shivering.	requirement		shivering	respond to a sudden drop in temperature	
759	A girl signals her friend by shining a flashlight on a mirror. Her friend can see the signal because light energy can be reflected from one object to another.	purpose		light energy can be reflected from one object to another	see the signal	
760	Having blue eyes is inherited rather than learned.	example		Having blue eyes	inherited	
761	When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.	purpose		decomposers	return nutrients	
762	Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.	condition		get energy	growth and repair from food	
763	A person does use mechanical energy to pedal a bicycle.	cause		mechanical energy	pedal a bicycle	
764	A graduated cylinder would be best to measure the volume of a liquid.	requirement		A graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
765	Sleet, rain, snow, and hail are forms of precipitation.	condition		Sleet, rain, snow, and hail	precipitation	
766	A metal fork is the best conductor of electricity.	effect		a metal fork	conductor of electricity	
767	Touch is used to determine an object's texture.	example		Touch	determine an object's texture	
768	A graduated cylinder would be best to measure the volume of a liquid.	purpose		A graduated cylinder	measure the volume of a liquid	
769	Water freezing is an example of a liquid changing to a solid.	requirement		Water freezing	a liquid changing to a solid	
770	Winter season is a season of the year during which a rabbits fur would be thickest.	cause		Winter season	a rabbits fur would be thickest	
771	Sight can be used to determine an objects ability to reflect light.	cause		Sight	determine an objects ability to reflect light	
772	During an experiment, a student reports that a liquid turned green when mixed with another liquid. This is an example of an observation.	purpose		This	observation	
773	Base your answers on the information below. One hot, summer day it rained very heavily. After the rain, a plastic pan on a picnic table had 2 cm of rainwater in it. Four hours later, all the rainwater in the pan was gone. Evaporation caused the rainwater in the pan to disappear as it sat outside in the hot air.	example		Evaporation	disappear	
774	Meters can be used to describe an objects length.	part		Meters	describe an objects length	
775	Sight can be used to determine an objects ability to reflect light.	condition		Sight	determine an objects ability to reflect light	
776	A human offspring can inherit blue eyes.	purpose		A human offspring	blue eyes	
777	A claws for obtaining food is correctly paired with its function.	part		claws	obtaining food	
778	The main function of scales on a fish is to protect the fish.	effect		scales of a fish	protect the fish	
779	A snowy field is an environment in which a white rabbit would be best protected from predators.	enable		snowy field	be best protected from predators	
780	One way animals usually respond to a sudden drop in temperature is by shivering.	cause		shivering	respond to a sudden drop in temperature	
781	Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.	requirement		green plants make their own food	producers	
782	Growing thicker fur in the winter helps some animals to keep warm.	cause		Growing thicker fur	keep warm	
783	Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.	example		Coloration	attract a mate	
784	Apple trees can live for many years, but bean plants usually live for only a few months. This statement suggests that different plants have different life spans.	part		statement	different plants have different life spans	
785	Meters can be used to describe an objects length.	enable		Meters	describe an objects length	
786	A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity.	effect		ball comes back down	gravity	
787	A student crumples up a sheet of paper. Shape has changed.	condition		crumples up a sheet of paper	Shape has changed	
788	An objects hardness, taste, and texture are examples of properties.	condition		hardness, taste, and texture	properties	
789	A student puts two identical plants in the same type and amount of soil. She gives them the same amount of water. She puts one of these plants near a sunny window and the other in a dark room. This experiment tests how the plants respond to light.	enable		experiment tests	how the plants respond to light	
790	A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity.	example		ball comes back down	gravity	
791	Growing thicker fur in the winter helps some animals to keep warm.	example		Growing thicker fur	keep warm	
792	A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.	cause		decomposer	breaks down dead plants and animals	
793	A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley.	purpose		pulley	move a flag up a flagpole	
794	Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.	part		Sunlight	the water cycle	
795	A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley.	enable		pulley	move a flag up a flagpole	
796	Living things depend on energy from the Sun.	purpose		Sun	Living things	
797	A pumpkin is a fruit.	requirement		pumpkin	a fruit	
798	Grow and reproduce are carried out by all species of living things.	requirement		Grow and reproduce	carried by all species of living things	
799	Water is usually found in nature as a liquid, solid, and gas.	enable		Water	liquid, solid, and gas	
800	Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.	enable		green plants make their own food	producers	
801	Apple trees can live for many years, but bean plants usually live for only a few months. This statement suggests that different plants have different life spans.	example		statement	different plants have different life spans	
802	A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley.	effect		pulley	move a flag up a flagpole	
803	When an ice cube melts, its state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid.	condition		an ice cube melts	state of matter changes from a solid to a liquid	
804	All animals do need water, air, and food in order to survive.	example		water, air and food	survive	
805	Sleet, rain, snow, and hail are forms of precipitation.	enable		Sleet, rain, snow, and hail	precipitation	
806	A stove is used to boil water in a pan is an example in which a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred.	enable		A stove is used to boil water in a pan	a thermometer could be used to show that heat energy is being transferred	
807	Water freezing is an example of a liquid changing to a solid.	part		Water freezing	a liquid changing to a solid	
808	Grow and reproduce are carried out by all species of living things.	part		Grow and reproduce	carried by all species of living things	
809	When a person speaks into a telephone, sound energy is changed mostly into electrical energy.	condition		speaks into a telephone	sound energy is changed into electricity energy	
810	During winter, the white fur of an arctic fox blends in with the snow. This adaptation is called camouflage.	example		adaptation	camouflag	
811	A student riding a bicycle observes that it moves faster on a smooth road than on a rough road. This happens because the smooth road has less friction.	enable		This	smooth road has less friction	
812	Exercising daily is one way that humans can maintain good health.	requirement		Exercising daily	humans can maintain good health	
813	A student measured the volume of water in a pan. The student boiled the water for thirty minutes and then measured the volume of the water again. The volume of water most likely decreased.	example		The student boiled the water	decreased	
814	A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.	requirement		decomposer	breaks down dead plants and animals	
815	Flower of a plant produces the seeds.	enable		Flower of a plant	seeds	
816	Heat energy causes an ice cube to melt.	part		Heat energy	an ice cube to melt	
817	Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.	condition		Mechanical energy	pushes a wooden block across the floor	
818	It rained on a hot summer afternoon and a puddle formed. After several hours, the puddle was gone. Precipitation followed by evaporation made the puddle form and then disappear.	enable		Precipitation followed by evaporation 	form and then disappear	
819	A bicycle is nonliving.	cause		bicycle	nonliving	
820	A decomposer is an organism that recycles nutrients.	requirement		decomposer	recycles nutrients	
821	Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.	cause		Gravity	rocks to roll downhill	
822	A person does use mechanical energy to pedal a bicycle.	requirement		mechanical energy	pedal a bicycle	
823	Some birds fly south before winter each year. This is an example of migration.	example		Some birds fly south before winter	migration	
824	Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold are words that help describe weather.	part		Windy, cloudy, rainy, and cold	describe weather	
825	A pumpkin is a fruit.	example		pumpkin	a fruit	
826	Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.	effect		Coloration	attract a mate	
827	The main function of a duck's webbed feet is to help the duck swim in water.	example		a duck's webbed feet	swim in water	
828	An objects hardness, taste, and texture are examples of properties.	requirement		hardness, taste, and texture	properties	
829	A student crumples up a sheet of paper. Shape has changed.	requirement		crumples up a sheet of paper	Shape has changed	
830	A student has a ball of clay that sinks when placed in a pan of water. He should change shape to make the clay float.	condition		change shape	make the clay float	
831	Rotation of Earth causes day and night.	purpose		Rotation of Earth	day and night	
832	During an experiment, a student reports that a liquid turned green when mixed with another liquid. This is an example of an observation.	requirement		This	observation	
833	When a person speaks into a telephone, sound energy is changed mostly into electrical energy.	requirement		speaks into a telephone	sound energy is changed into electricity energy	
834	A student has a ball of clay that sinks when placed in a pan of water. He should change shape to make the clay float.	enable		change shape	make the clay float	
835	An example of a poor health habit is eating candy instead of lunch.	cause		eating candy instead of lunch	a poor health habit	
836	Exercising daily is one way that humans can maintain good health.	cause		Exercising daily	humans can maintain good health	
837	A decrease in air temperature from 60°F to 35°F would most likely cause a person to shiver.	effect		A decrease in air temperature	a person to shiver	
838	Living things depend on energy from the Sun.	effect		Sun	Living things	
839	A decrease in air temperature from 60°F to 35°F would most likely cause a person to shiver.	purpose		A decrease in air temperature	a person to shiver	
840	Rotation of Earth causes day and night.	cause		Rotation of Earth	day and night	
841	A marble is dropped in a glass of water. Gravity pulls the marble to the bottom of the glass.	purpose		Gravity	pulls the marble to the bottom	
842	Some butterflies live an average of two weeks. This period of time is called a life span.	purpose		live a average of two weeks	life span	
843	Heat energy causes an ice cube to melt.	effect		Heat energy	an ice cube to melt	
844	Sleet and hail are forms of precipitation.	purpose		Sleet and hail	precipitation	
845	Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.	cause		Exercising every day	good health habit	
846	Sleet and hail are forms of precipitation.	enable		Sleet and hail	precipitation	
847	A claws for obtaining food is correctly paired with its function.	cause		claws	obtaining food	
848	Heat is needed to change water from a liquid to a gas.	requirement		Heat	change water from a liquid to a gas	
849	Frogs lay eggs that develop into tadpoles and then into adult frogs. This sequence of changes is an example of how living things go through a life cycle.	part		sequence of changes	how living things go through a life cycle	
850	Many birds fly south for the winter. This adaptation is called migration.	enable		Many birds fly south for the winter	migration	
851	A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity.	purpose		ball comes back down	gravity	
852	Centimeters can be used to describe the length of a desk.	cause		Centimeters	describe the length of a desk	
853	Growth causes the leaves of a plant to become larger.	cause		Growth	leaves of a plant to become larger	
854	During an experiment, a student reports that a liquid turned green when mixed with another liquid. This is an example of an observation.	effect		This	observation	
855	A thick fur would best help a bear to survive a winter in New York State.	enable		thick fur	survive in winter	
856	A student measured the volume of water in a pan. The student boiled the water for thirty minutes and then measured the volume of the water again. The volume of water most likely decreased.	part		The student boiled the water	decreased	
