A student drops a ball.
Electricity causes the ball to fall to the ground.

A student drops a ball.
Friction causes the ball to fall to the ground.

A student drops a ball.
Gravity causes the ball to fall to the ground.

A student drops a ball.
Magnetism causes the ball to fall to the ground.

Gravity causes rocks to roll downhill.

Friction causes rocks to roll downhill.

Erosion causes rocks to roll downhill.

Magnetism causes rocks to roll downhill.

A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes.
This adaptation helps the fox to find food.

A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes.
This adaptation helps the fox to keep warmer.

A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes.
This adaptation helps the fox to grow stronger.

A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes.
This adaptation helps the fox to escape from predators.

Watching television is an example of a good health habit.

Smoking cigarettes is an example of a good health habit.

Eating candy is an example of a good health habit.

Exercising every day is an example of a good health habit.

A decomposer is an organism that hunts and eats animals.

A decomposer is an organism that migrates for the winter.

A decomposer is an organism that breaks down dead plants and animals.

A decomposer is an organism that uses water and sunlight to make food.

Electricity is the main source of energy for the water cycle.

Erosion is the main source of energy for the water cycle.

Gravity is the main source of energy for the water cycle.

Sunlight is the main source of energy for the water cycle.

A student should use a graduated cylinder to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.

A student should use pan balance to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.

A student should use a ruler to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.

A student should use a thermometer to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water.

Reading is necessary for humans to maintain good health.

Resting is necessary for humans to maintain good health.

Driving activity is necessary for humans to maintain good health.

Talking activity is necessary for humans to maintain good health.

Hibernation often helps an animal attract a mate.

Camouflage often helps an animal attract a mate.

Coloration often helps an animal attract a mate.

Migration often helps an animal attract a mate.

Mechanical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.

Magnetic energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.

Sound is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.

Electrical energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor.

Since green plants make their own food, they are called predators.

Since green plants make their own food, they are called prey.

Since green plants make their own food, they are called decomposers.

Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers.

Green plants get the energy they need to make food from air.

Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight.

Green plants get the energy they need to make food from water.

Green plants get the energy they need to make food from soil.

When plants and animals die, decomposers help return nutrients to the food chain.

When plants and animals die, predators help return nutrients to the food chain.

When plants and animals die, prey help return nutrients to the food chain.

When plants and animals die, producers help return nutrients to the food chain.

Animals get energy for growth and repair from soil.

Animals get energy for growth and repair from food.

Animals get energy for growth and repair from water.

Animals get energy for growth and repair from air.

A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out.
A human's body produces sweat.
These are two ways that organisms may adjust to cold temperatures.

A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out.
A human's body produces sweat.
These are two ways that organisms may adjust to hot temperatures.

A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out.
A human's body produces sweat.
These are two ways that organisms may adjust to a shortage of food.

A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out.
A human's body produces sweat.
These are two ways that organisms may adjust to a shortage of drinking water.

A bat flying at night is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.

A deer drinking water is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.

An owl eating a mouse is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.

A squirrel storing nuts is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment.

A student is growing some plants for an experiment.
She notices small white spots on the leaves.
She should use a thermometer to get a better look at the spots.

A student is growing some plants for an experiment.
She notices small white spots on the leaves.
She should use hand lens to get a better look at the spots.

A student is growing some plants for an experiment.
She notices small white spots on the leaves.
She should use a graduated cylinder to get a better look at the spots.

A student is growing some plants for an experiment.
She notices small white spots on the leaves.
She should use a balance to get a better look at the spots.

Decreasing the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.

Increasing the temperature is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.

Decreasing the mass is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.

Increasing the mass is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid.

A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires.
The heat that produces the smoke is caused by magnetism.

A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires.
The heat that produces the smoke is caused by sound.

A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires.
The heat that produces the smoke is caused by light.

A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires.
The heat that produces the smoke is caused by friction.

Breathing most often has a harmful effect on the environment.

Growing most often has a harmful effect on the environment.

Planting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.

Polluting most often has a harmful effect on the environment.
