Which force causes rocks to roll downhill? (A) gravity(B) friction(C) erosion(D) magnetism
Which activity is an example of a good health habit? (A) watching television(B) smoking cigarettes(C) eating candy(D) exercising every day
A decomposer is an organism that (A) hunts and eats animals(B) migrates for the winter(C) breaks down dead plants and animals(D) uses water and sunlight to make food
What is one way to change water from a liquid to a solid? (A) decrease the temperature (B) increase the temperature (C) decrease the mass (D) increase the mass
A student drops a ball. Which force causes the ball to fall to the ground? (A) electricity (B) friction (C) gravity (D) magnetism
What is the main source of energy for the water cycle? (A) electricity(B) erosion(C) gravity(D) sunlight
Which instrument should a student use to measure exactly 10 milliliters (mL) of water? (A) graduated cylinder (B) pan balance (C) ruler (D) thermometer
Green plants get the energy they need to make food from (A) air (B) sunlight (C) water (D) soil
When plants and animals die, which organisms help return nutrients to the food chain? (A) decomposers (B) predators (C) prey (D) producers
Which animal is preparing for a seasonal change in the environment? (A) a bat flying at night (B) a deer drinking water (C) an owl eating a mouse (D) a squirrel storing nuts
What form of energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor? (A) mechanical (B) magnetic (C) sound (D) electrical
Since green plants make their own food, they are called (A) predators (B) prey (C) decomposers (D) producers
Which human activity most often has a harmful effect on the environment? (A) breathing (B) growing (C) planting (D) polluting
A dog opens its mouth and lets its tongue hang out. A human's body produces sweat. These are two ways that organisms may adjust to (A) cold temperatures (B) hot temperatures (C) a shortage of food (D) a shortage of drinking water
A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. Which tool should she use to get a better look at the spots? (A) thermometer (B) hand lens (C) graduated cylinder (D) balance
A fox grows thicker fur as a season changes. This adaptation helps the fox to (A) find food(B) keep warmer(C) grow stronger(D) escape from predators
Which adaptation often helps an animal attract a mate? (A) hibernation (B) camouflage (C) coloration (D) migration
Animals get energy for growth and repair from (A) soil (B) food (C) water (D) air
A car skids along the road and smoke appears to be coming from under the tires. The heat that produces the smoke is caused by (A) magnetism (B) sound (C) light (D) friction
